So what types of fonts?
Serif fonts have short lines or
strokes on the ends of their letters.
So Times New Roman is just the default
serif font that everyone knows of.
Droid Serif,
anything that's a serif is a serif font.
Again, Sans-serif or Sans-serif, sans
means without in French, so they don't
have lines on the ends of their letters or
strokes on the ends of their letters.
So IBM Plex Sans, PT Sans, Helvetia,
those are all Sans-serif fonts.
And serif fonts are typically very
traditional, you'll probably see it in
printed newspapers or things that are a
little bit more prestigious, I guess.
And then,
Sans-serif are gonna be more modern, so
you might see this on a technical blog or
another website that's a little more
colloquial, it's a little more casual.
We've got Monospaced fonts, which are our
favorites, we use them in our IDEs and
our text editors.
So these are fonts where the letters and
the characters occupy
the same amount of space.
So in other fonts like you'll see here,
like the letters actually
span different widths.
In monospaced fonts, every letter
takes up the same amount of space.
Let's talk about font measurements for
a second.
We're all familiar with pixels, so
pixels are the units used by designers and
we often use it throughout our UIs.
And there's still some debate
as to whether pixels or Or
Rem is the best unit to use.
We're gonna talk about all three today,
so pixels can be used but
they traditionally did pose
an accessibility issue.
So let's talk about that.
We've got And we've got Rem, so
these are the relative units.
So Rem is actually going to be relative
to the document body, I believe.
It's either HTML element or
the the body element.
We're gonna set this when we actually
code our our global styles today.
And anything that we set a Rem
value on is going to be relative.
So like if we have 16 pixels
on our HTML element, and
we set 1.2 Rem on a text
element like a header, for
example, it's gonna multiply 1.2 times
that base 16 value, and why is that great?
That's really great because users who
are visually impaired can go into their
browsers and
change the default base size of the font.
So typically, it would be 16 pixels,
I believe, but
if I'm a user who has a visual impairment
and I go into my browser settings and
I change that to 20 pixels, by using Rem,
I'm actually able to adjust the relative
size of all of my text content.
You shouldn't use Rem and For spacing,
those can get a little weird with layouts,
but they're really good for font.
In relation is going to be
relative to the nearest
parent element that has
a designated pixel value.
So those are a little bit more,
they're not as standardized as like Rem.
You set it on the base, you know
everything is gonna be consistent.
If you set it on a parent
somewhere in the DOM,
it's gonna be a little bit harder
to calculate what that's gonna be.